Grades were in a building and then I think the third and fourth were in one, maybe first and second.
That school incidentally, there's a drawing of it in the artwork that was given to President Bush.
There's one of the little scenes on that shows that school looking north toward the campus.
just as I remember it, I'd like to know where she got that.
Yeah, yeah.
Right, no, wait, what's her name, the lady that painted that thing?
I don't know.
Well, I've got a copy of it upstairs.
My husband's a lawyer.
But anyhow, one of the little scenes is of that school looking north, and you can see the system building in the background.
Yeah.
Who were some of the special teachers in your junior and senior high school years?
Grady Elms was a seventh grade teacher.
We're talking 1940 here.
The ladies, there was a Mrs. Slaughter of all names.
Her husband was a physician, inappropriately named.
Mrs. Heaton was there.
In high school, the superintendent was Mance Park, I think that's singular, who died just recently.
He was over in Huntsville and had a remarkable career in the educational world and was recognized.
Mr. Bunning, W.D.
Bunning came along about that time and assumed the superintendency, the others all went into service as soon as the 1941, most of the male teachers left.
Mr. Bunning I guess was old enough that when he had a family he was not drafted.
He incidentally died just the last two or three months at age 94 or so.
There was a
Coach came, Lyles, who taught, what did Mr. Lyles teach?
He was primarily the coach, though, who didn't anything but football or wasn't anything else.
A little track in the spring, a little bit of track in the spring.
The teachers then, one of the teachers was Mrs. Carl Landis, of course, who's still here.
There was Ferguson, Tommy Ferguson, and his wife, I think she's still living, the Fergusons, Mrs. Landis, Mrs. Fleming, Delia Fleming was there.
She was one of our favorites.
Oh, and then there was an English teacher, Mrs. Thompson, whose husband was an architect and I think
did most of the designing of the school system over here under the, I think under, Ernest Langford had his hand in nearly all the architectural things that went on around here, Ernest Langford, and he was involved.
Who were the, during those late 30s and early 40s, who were the college station community leaders, I'm talking about off campus community leaders?
Herschel Burgess I think now of course developed what we know as Oakwood over here and of course his wife was Dr. Walton's daughter, the president's daughter.
Colonel Andy
I think you said you were going to interview Rusty Anderson tomorrow.
His father certainly was, he was a commandant and a coach and lots of, a mayor, who was the mayor of College Station.
Yes sir, he was one of the mayors.
Let's see, Sid Loveless came along about that time.
In fact, he was the first city secretary.
Bennett, J.H.
Bennett was, I think, was the first mayor who was killed in an automobile accident, oh, 41, 40, somewhere along in there.
Let's see, of course, the people on campus were, G.O.
Walton was president, Lipscomb,
ran Lipscomb's pharmacy, was a pharmacist, Bill Sparks, Sparks, Lipscomb, J.F.
Casey, a man who never married, but Sparks and Casey,
owned one of the drug stores at the North Gate and of course there was Casey's confectionary in the YMCA.
Was that same?
Same, yeah, J.F.
Casey, uh-huh.
Cashin, I think, would be termed a leader in the community.
Of course Dr. Clark was head of the economics department.
He got crossways with Mr. Gilchrist in 47 and was fired, but then he continued the development of, you know, way south with Bill Fitch.
He and Bill Fitch were instrumental in all of that.
Now, I heard just a teeny bit from Mr. Gilchrist about the incorporation of the town of College Station.
And I got the impression that it was done to prevent Brian's annexing it.
Did you hear any?
Oh, yes, very definitely.
Yes, and in fact, Brian would have annexed more, but they got up to their limit.
There's a certain amount that you can annex per year or some period of time.
And so, yes, very definitely.
That was one of the reasons, and this is pretty well documented in the
the book uh who the lady that uh below well you've seen copies of the book that the was written in conjunction with the 1988 uh our 50-year celebration very good documentation of a lot of these things she did an excellent job of documenting but yes it was to get incorporated well we needed to i mean
We had no police, you know, no fire, no nothing, and, you know, we were totally dependent on A&M for fire, and even A&M didn't have any police force.
It was, you know, we chased the parking people around.
Let's say up through the end of World War II, where could a person in College Station have bought groceries without going to Bryan, wasn't it?
Oh, yeah, we had a couple of good grocery stores.
Luke Patronella ran a grocery store.
In fact, he and Charles Apperstini were in grocery business together in the early 30s, Luke and Charlie's.
And quoting the books of the Bible, we grew up, it wasn't Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, it was Matthew, Mark, Luke, and Charlie.
So...
So, but in mid-30s, they separated and Luke opened his own store.
Now, Luke Patronella is the father to Joyce Birdwell, you may well know.
In fact, she just died recently in the last week, Mrs. Patronella did, just died.
And then that was at a place at the north gate and so help me, I have no earthly idea how they squeezed that place.
You drive through that area now and you can't even imagine a grocery store being there.
But he had a grocery store, we thought a good one.
and then later moved to the East Gate, to that row of businesses right at the entrance over there, and there are pictures of it.
And then about, oh, in 40 or 41, Southside was developed.
Sparks and old Dan Russell and somebody else built that building that housed Mailey Pharmacy, Southside Food Market.
So there was nothing at Southside, no commercial until then?
That's right.
There was a doctor's office.
Dwight Andre was over there.
I was his first patient, by the way.
I set myself on fire.
in July of 1940, and my mother was getting ready to take me to Bryan, and she said, I think there's a new doctor, let's chance it.
Sure enough, he was still unwrapping his furniture and stuff upstairs.
I was Dwight Andre's first patient above Medley's pharmacy.
Of course, Mr. Medley just died, you know.
I wasn't aware of his
being alive or I would have tried to have interviewed him.
He would have been great.
Some months ago.
Yeah.
And Madeleaves became a community gathering place, didn't it?
Oh, definitely.
Yes, yes.
Go get coffee and a soft drink.
That's right.
As a matter of fact, the
college people would get in college vehicles and drive down to Madeleine.
And I can remember there was this caused some problems of people first leaving work and driving university vehicles and all sorts of things.
So you can imagine the rules and regulations that came out about preventing that sort of activity.
But I don't think it probably deterred it temporarily for a while.
It was definitely the gathering place.
How he made a living off selling 10-cent cups of coffee, I'm not sure, but apparently he did quite well.
He just gave a couple of million dollars to the community.
Where did, in high school, where did you and your buddies go on a Friday night or a Saturday night for fun?
Movies, mostly.
We had the campus theater.
Of course in Bryan, they had three theaters in Bryan.
The Palace, the Queen Theater, and there was a third one that we didn't venture to.
I can't even remember the name of it now.
Was it the gym?
The Dixie.
The Dixie Theater, yes.
And that, I'm not, we didn't go there.
It was below our dignity.
But the palace and the Queen Theater were nice places.
Gatherings at people's houses.
Manning Smith, Manning and Nita Smith began their career in this house.
They were, you know, became world known square dancers, you know, and taught and whatnot.
He was a coach at A&M and right after they were married, I don't know who instigated it, but this house was built with linoleum flooring.
And it moved the furniture back and it made a nice dancing area.
So there were many dances held in this house here.
and they started their dancing career here.
But Holmes provided quite a bit of parting, more so than now.
Did you and your buddies in high school go to the, was it called the gravel pitch, rock pitch?
Yes, sir.
Where were they?
West of Welburn.
You go down to, past Welburn, south of Welburn.
and across the tracks with gravel pits.
About how far west of the tracks?
A mile.
Probably not a mile.
A dirt road, you know.
And so the only water in there was rainwater.
There wasn't a stream.
No.
There wasn't a spring.
There must have been.
The water was not.
You'd envision these circumstances very bad water, but the water was not.
It must have been a spring or something, and maybe the filtering of the gravel cleansed it or something.
Now, was it okay for you high school kids to go when there were any A&M kids there?
Was that all right?
I don't remember any conflicts.
Now, did girls ever go?
Oh, yes.
Yes, indeed.
And you dressed in the car or went over behind the car or something?
I guess, or either went there dressed, probably had her swimming suits on under, you know, outer clothes.
I don't remember that being a problem.
Was that also a place to sleep and drink beer?
Yes, we didn't.
I mean, I wasn't in a beer drinking group.
Not that we were all that pure.
We hadn't been introduced to it.
I guess.
Oh, I'm sure, yes.
Now, we'd go out to the Brazos River a lot, too.
Brazos River was a pretty dangerous place.
There were drownings out there.
But we had, well, I built a boat that we'd go down the Brazos thing, you know, kayak type thing.
But you and your friends didn't usually go out there to the river to swim.
No, the river, unless it was swollen, was not a very good, if it was swollen, it wasn't a safe place to swim.
Usually it was summertime when it was low and you could wade through most of it.
It was, I'd hardly call it swimming.
It was more just playing in the water.
There was a place way south
out of Millican that, I don't know, it was more of a place to swim and play in the water.
We didn't go there much.
It's about right, somebody drowned out there not long ago.
Our mother took us out there.
Well, it was too far away to begin with.
I mean, you go clear to Millican and then go west from there toward Washington on the Brazos.
And it was not a good place to go from a safety standpoint.
All right, in the same era, late 30s, early 40s, church going, almost all the churches were either immediately north of the campus or on campus.
We went to the Presbyterian church, which met first of all the YMCA, which had a chapel in it.
It's not apparent now, but it's been divided horizontally.
It was hard to envision it ever having a chapel.
Now, later we met in Guyon Hall, which was the main assembly place for A&M students.
And then, I guess toward the end of World War II, we met in the campus theater.
And then about that time, they built their church then at the North Gate.
Did anybody ever raise the question about any separation of church and state?
Oh, no.
Heaven forbid, no.
I hadn't even thought of.
And Mr. Cashin was a material, so that would have given a little bit of an in with the why.
Now, there was a, what they called a Union Sunday School, which met many years ago in the basement of Guyon Hall, which was a very small, you might remember C.K.
Eston having his,
theater thing as offices.
That was our Sunday school space many, many years ago.
We later met in the assembly hall, which was the forerunner of the all-faith chapel.
But that was sort of an all-denominational thing.
It wasn't old Mrs. Campbell, I remember, ran that.
C.B.
Campbell, her husband was the, called it modern languages back then.
I don't know what they call it now.
People of that nature ran it.
And then for church, as I say, we'd go to the YMCA, the Presbyterians did the Baptist and the Methodist had buildings at the North Gate.
The Catholics had a building there.
Church of Christ built a building there in mid-30s, which the Baptist ultimately bought and then finally sold their property and the Church of Christ to the Methodists
And now I don't know what, I think they're in the process of wanting to do something.
They're debating.
They're debating now, okay, so.
What about St.
Thomas here?
St.
Thomas came into being, I think, in 1938.
Okay, so it is there by the war.
Was there any Jewish group meeting at all, you remember, during those years?
There was a temple in Bryan, which I think is still there.
Yes, yes.
but not out here yet?
Not, if they met, I was not aware of a place that they would have gone to.
There was a man who ran a cleaning shop in Northgate, J.B.
Lauderstein, who was a Jewish, he and his wife, and I think, I thought were active in their faith, but now where they went or what they did, I have no idea.
Later,
Oh, oh, fiddlesticks.
Do you know him?
In biochemistry?
Yeah, you know who I'm talking about.
He and his wife.
Who were the leaders of the Jewish?
Yes, yes, yes.
Oh, boy.
You know who I'm talking about.
They were the leaders of the Jewish.
Richard was the son's name.
Oh, well.
I'm glad to know it slipped your mind.
But now you know what I'm talking about.
Do you remember any incidents of religious difficulty?
Like when I've interviewed people like Melvin Maltz, a very active former student who was Jewish, I asked him did he ever have to put up with anything that getting gigged or teased or anything.
He said, oh, no.
And I asked him, well, what was yours?
You all had a nickname.
I know everybody.
What was yours?
And he said mine was Jew Boy.
But he said that never, I never heard it as a put down, and I don't think anybody attended as a put down.
No, I can remember he was being called that.
And he said that was my identifier, and I was proud to be Jewish, and nobody ever gave me a hard time about it.
No, we had religious emphasis weeks on campus.
Were those there in Europe?
That goes up to my time.
I was going to say, and I don't, everybody, Catholics, Jews, everybody went.
I mean, they were, you know, well-known speakers.
Was religious emphasis week going in the 40s?
Don't think so.
I remember I entered school in 45, the fall of 45, and it was going then.
Oh, it was?
Okay.
Now whether it came in before that, I'm not sure.
I probably,
right at the end of World War I or II.
Let's back up to just before the war.
Who were some of the campus student celebrities that you remember when you were a younger kid?
Celebrities?
Yeah.
Oh, my goodness.
Was John Kimbrough a celebrity?
Oh, yes, yes.
Heaven forbid, yes.
What kind of personality did he seem to have?
Well, of course, I didn't know him that well.
thought of him as an easy going big daddy type sort of a guy.
Chip Rout was here with Joe and Chip Rout and Joe Rout Boulevard was named.
Of course John Kimbrough had a brother Wallace Kimbrough who married a Bryan girl and was here.
Now, was he the one, he had a brother that had a physical handicap?
Was that?
That was Wallace.
Was that Wallace?
I've forgotten that one.
He limped, I think.
All right.
Let me tell you to get it on this machine that I've heard.
I don't know whether it's true or not.
I hope it is.
That young John Kimbrough, as a freshman, goes to Tulane, which had a real red hot football team then.
And this is the beginning of his freshman year and he's working out two or three days, but he's a little bit homesick.
And his brother comes over and he goes with his brother to see if somebody can help his brother get a job, but he's got this bad leg.
And whomever they talk to, Tulane, one of the coaches or something or other, you know,
football players are always wanting some, what the heck, we're not, you know.
And so he comes back to his room and in frustration packs up and says he's going to come back to Texas, be closer home.
His freshman roommate hears that and decides that he too will leave, that he didn't like it down there, and he was going to go back home to Michigan.
So Tommy Herman and John Kimbrough shook hands and went to the train.
You're kidding.
I hope that story is true.
It's a great story.
I've not heard it.
Because the Heisman Trophy winner, Herman, and the All-American fullback, John Kimbrough, shook hands and parted.
Would have been a pretty good pair.
Oh, man, alive.
Let's see.
Coach Norton, what was he like?
to a young man?
If we weren't close to him, I don't suppose
I ever saw him other than passing by in an automobile or something, you know.
But you didn't hear that he was a?
Oh, no.
He was the epitome of everything good as far as I know.
You know, I don't, you know, all these people were, you know, we were saints, you know, up there somewhere, you know.
What did you and your buddies do on a football day here?
You went to the games.
Did y'all have tickets or did you work your way in or sell programs or what?
We didn't sell programs and if we had to we could pay 50 cents and get in the knothole section.
But I think we could even sneak in probably, in fact I've got a scar on my
It wasn't a football game, it was a baseball game, climbing over a fence, and it was a stub of a barbed wire sticking out barefooted, and it ripped my foot open down here across the ball of my foot.
I don't think that kept me from going to the game.
I think I went ahead and intended to do it after I got home, but I think the scar is still on the bottom of my foot.
Oh, you'd pick up bottles sometime afterwards and the coke people would give you a little bit of nothing for gathering up the bottles because paper cups and things were unheard of back at that time.
You'd pick up the bottles, but we'd go.
In fact, the first, not the first game, but there was an SMU game in that famous 1939 year.
It was cold, raining, I mean freezing.
old.
And I remember sitting behind Pat Orr, who later married Dean of Business School at Harvard, Fouracre, Larry Fouracre, later married, and I can remember
Pat Orr had a cup of coffee in her hand, it's cold, cold day, and she poured it down the neck of the guy in front of her, for I have no other earthly reason why, but I think he sort of welcomed it.
It was warm, but it was startling nevertheless.
Why Pat did that, I'll never know, but she's still up in Boston.
Larry died, but she's still up in Boston.
All right, so you enter in the fall of 45, and the campus was then very chaotic with all of the various units, the special training units.
Yes, by then they had
Let's see, the war ended actually in August of 45, and I'm talking about September.
Oh, September.
Oh, oh.
A month later.
So the war was actually.
I was thinking it was January.
Okay, September.
September.
I believe most of those units had pretty well departed by then.
I think with the ending of the war in Europe, uh,
this was not a problem.
Now, when I was in high school, much congestion on the campus with what they call those guys.
There were Navy, Marine, Army, all branches were there.
But by the time I entered, the veterans were first coming back at that time.
And so that first year was somewhat, well, the whole period of time was chaotic.
You know, guys were coming back, being released from the service and coming into school.
Now, I'm assuming there weren't many vets in September, but by January, I presume.
By January, there were, yes.
That's right, because it was just, we were a month away from the bombing of
Do you remember anything about the application for admission process?
Well, if it was very complex, I wouldn't have gotten in.
Not really.
Well, of course, it was all over at Sebiza Hall.
I mean, you'd just line up and go and pick out whatever course.
There were just tables lined up there, and you picked out the courses you want.
Guidance, very little.
I can try to remember some of the people who were very helpful.
Tom Harrington was one.
You could go into Tom Harrington's office and he would solve your problem.
Maybe not to your liking, but he didn't send you off somewhere else.
He took care of it.
J.P.
Abbott was this way.
who taught English.
I had him for an English class, you know, wonderful teacher, but later as he became a dean or head of the department or something in the enrolling process, J.P.
Abbott and M.T.
Harrington would take care of your problems.
You quite often would get sent to the moon if you went to say, well, you've got to go do this, or you've got to go over here and do that, or, you know, this type thing.
But not with them.
They'd pick up the phone and solve your problem.
And when you started out, what you thought was going to be your major?
Aeronautical engineering.
I had learned to fly.
In fact, I had a private pilot's license.
I was like JFK Jr.
In May, in my, well, no, I didn't at that time, but in the spring of 45, high school, I worked out at Coulter Field in Bryan, and they paid me in flying time, three hours a week, as I remember, for, you know, maintaining the planes and being there on the weekends and whatever.
And I took my, well that's right, I wasn't old enough.
I was 17.
I think I had to wait until I was 18.
No, that's not true either because January of 46, I got my private pilot's license.
That was the middle of my freshman year.
That's pretty special.
Well, it was, except I've never flown since.
None of your buddies had a home.
Oh, no.
And I can remember the first time my father, I mean, the idea of flying in an airplane, you know, this was unheard of.
Oh, yeah, this was a big deal, but I'd still have a private license, but as I said, I've never flown too expensive.
Those first courses, which ones were memorable?
English, JP Abbott.
Oh, he was your freshman English teacher?
Describe him as a classroom teacher.
Somewhat formal, dignified, yet open, very open.
You had the feeling that he cared about you.
You didn't get by with much, you know.
He was firm.
Let's see.
Well, I think that's about it.
He was just somebody you liked.
He had a good smile, didn't he?
Oh, yeah.
A very good smile.
Goodness gracious.
I had a... Science, math.
Yes, science.
Heaven forbid.
I went through chemistry 101, and who did I have?
I had M.T.
Harrington as a, you know, you met in the big place, and you had your lecture.
I had Dr. Harrington for one of those, and a fellow by the name of McGinnis was my class teacher.
I wasn't cut out for chemistry.
I think I passed it, but this was not one of my fortes.
What about Dr. Harrington as a lecturer?
Oh, excellent, excellent, yes.
Good voice.
Strong voice, very firm, very thorough, you know.
If you didn't get it, it was because your own receptors weren't working.
No, it was very strong.